DRAFT Client Care Letter (AC Example).docx

Generated: 2026-03-06T16:19:05.035Z



Our Reference HELIX01-01

Helix administration

Second Floor, Britannia House

21 Station Street

Brighton

East Sussex

BN1 4DE

BY EMAIL ONLY - info@helix-law.com

Email lz@helix-law.com

Date 17 February, 2026

Dear

Admin

Thank you for your instructions to act in relation to the above matter. I am a Tech & Automations of Helix Law and I will be handling your matter and I will have overall responsibility for the supervision of your matter.

Our policy is to communicate with you in a way that is convenient for you. Our preference is to usually communicate with you via email. If there is an alternative method of communication, you would like to use please let me know and I will do my best to accommodate you.

I apologise for the length and slightly formal appearance of this letter, but we are required to set out certain information at the outset of any instruction. We have tried to keep it as brief as possible.

The contact details for our main office are: Luke Zemanek, Helix Law, Second Floor, Britannia House, 21 Station Street, Brighton BN1 4DE; Telephone: 01273 761990; Email: lz@helix-law.com

The best way to contact me is by email or post to the above address, or by telephone during working hours (9am to 5.30pm Monday to Friday). We are frequently available outside of these hours and if you require further flexibility then you only need ask.

If I am not available, the following members of staff may be able to deal with any queries you have: PLEASE INSERT

The person with overall responsibility for supervision of your matter is ALEX/ JONATHAN and I am a Tech & Automations  of Helix Law. At Helix we use the term Partner to refer to a senior solicitor within our limited company. Usually this will therefore apply to a director of the company. Use of this term does not create or refer to a partnership in the legal sense as Helix Law is a limited company.

Current position, next steps & scope of retainer

You have instructed me that… [INSERT BRIEF SUMARY OF THE ISSUE].

Timescale

Disputes can settle at any time, including without the need for court action or a court order. We will consider with you how best to resolve your specific dispute in our further advice. Due to the wide range of circumstances and factors involved in disputes, and their resolution, it is very difficult to provide absolute or comprehensive and/or accurate timescales within which we can be certain that your dispute will be resolved. I will therefore need to discuss timescales with you again when we have reviewed this matter.

With some disputes we are required to follow court guidelines, even where a claim has not been issued. These guidelines are known as pre-action protocols. Pre- action protocols are designed to assist, and to force, all parties in a dispute to narrow the areas and issues in dispute in the hope that disputes can be resolved without the need for the courts to get involved.

There is a general requirement that all parties will have attempted to settle or resolve a dispute before going to court and failing to do so can lead to costs sanctions. This means that if you are not seen to have acted reasonably and proportionately, the court can refuse to allow you to recover your legal costs or may even order you to pay your opponent's legal costs even where you are successful.

If there is a specific applicable pre-action protocol, we will advise you of and will need to discuss the implications of this with you.

The following will not apply in every case or dispute however in very general broad terms we would normally expect to spend in the region of approximately 1 week to 3 months corresponding with your opponent to narrow the issues, prepare and set out your case, and to put you in the strongest possible position to either settle the dispute, or to present your case at trial.

Commercial Litigation and Business Debt Recovery

Where we are instructed to recover business and/or commercial debts the pre action stage referred to above will usually be far shorter. Unless the circumstances are unusual, or a substantive issue is raised we would normally expect this to amount to one letter setting out the legal basis of the claim (often called a letter of claim or letter before action) and thereafter we would usually proceed with issuing a claim or by taking the most appropriate alternative next step such as bankruptcy or winding up proceedings.

Broadly you might expect a straightforward money claim to be considered within approximately two months if it is straightforward, low value and not contested. If the debt has a higher value or a claim is defended, it may take significantly longer for the issue to be resolved at trial.

Pursuing debtor insolvency via bankruptcy for individuals and/or winding up for companies can initially be a quick and cost-effective route to consider. There is usually a 21-day period from serving a formal notice, after which the number of available defences significantly reduces. However, if a debtor defends a bankruptcy claim and/or seeks to avoid winding up, these processes can take approximately 3-6months until a final court hearing takes place.

Complex Disputes and Significant Litigation

For other disputes only concluded at trial and/or that have a higher value, a timescale of 18 months or longer from issuing the claim would not be unusual, depending on how busy the court is, and how much resistance is encountered from your opponent. Again, we will always seek to keep you advised regarding estimated timescales throughout the course of your instruction.

Urgent Litigation and Injunctions

The timescale referred above do not take into account whether you are entitled or need an immediate temporary solution to prevent something from happening or to force something to be done, for example to protect your business or property.

In such circumstances you may be entitled to an injunction which is a fast and immediate order from the court that might be made to ensure that no further harm or damage is done before a trial can take place. If you have any queries regarding timescales and/or injunctions, then please raise these with us immediately.

Where claims are issued in court if your opponent does not respond at all to the claim, or does not respond fully or properly, it is possible that the above timescales may be significantly reduced. For example, we might be able to obtain a Default Judgment against an opponent in a money claim after only 14 days from the date of the claim being served. If this is possible and/or applicable, we will automatically let you know.

Legal costs

There are three main elements to the legal costs of any matter:

•	our charges

•	expenses we must pay out of your behalf—sometimes called disbursements

•	costs that you may have to pay another party

Costs are always ordered at the discretion of the court however in the usual course of events the losing party may be ordered to pay the winner's costs as well as their own. This does not apply to small claims worth less than £10,000. In small claims legal costs are not recoverable and each party must pay their own legal costs regardless of whether they win or lose. Where costs are recoverable the court will take a number of factors into account when considering making a costs order. These factors include whether the parties have acted reasonably, whether they have incurred (and therefore now seek to reclaim) proportionate legal costs, and whether for example offers have been made which should have been accepted. Where such offers are made, we will discuss the possible implications with you. Where proceedings are issued there is a risk that you may have to pay your opponent's costs. We will advise you of your prospects of success and the risk of an adverse costs order as your matter progresses. A cost order usually results in an assessment process as a result of which approximately seventy percent of your actual expenditure on costs are recovered.

Our charges

Our fees are calculated, and our invoices raised on the basis of an hourly rate. I am a Tech & Automations, and my hourly rate is £0.00 per hour.

Our hourly rates are:- Directors are charged at £475, partners and senior solicitors at £425, associate solicitors at £350, solicitors at £310 and trainees and paralegals are charged at £210. All hourly rates are excluding VAT, and this will be added at the prevailing rate.

Short incoming and outgoing letters, messages, emails and routine phone calls are charged at 1/10 of an hour. All other work is timed in six-minute units and charged at the relevant hourly rate. Please note that lots of small emails or telephone calls may unnecessarily increase the costs to you.

EITHER;

Fixed price wording

We will charge a fixed price of £ [insert price excluding + VAT for [state briefly what work the fixed price relates to]. At this stage, we do not expect that it will be necessary to do any work outside the terms of this fixed fee. We will notify you if the position changes and if it does, we will agree with you how the additional work will be charged.

We will add VAT to our charges at the prevailing rate.

OR

Hourly rate wording

We estimate that our overall charges will be somewhere between £ [state lower figure] and £[state higher figure], depending on [state factors affecting final cost – complexity, length of time, amount of resistance etc.] The next stage in your matter is [specify next stage] and we estimate that our charges up to the completion of that stage will be in the region of £ [state figure or range].

We will add VAT to our charges at the prevailing rate.

We reserve the right to increase the hourly rates if the work done is particularly complex or urgent, or the nature of your instructions means that we have to work outside normal office hours. If this happens, we will notify you in advance and agree an appropriate rate.

OR

Conditional fee wording

We have agreed to consider acting on a Conditional Fee Agreement ('no win, no fee') basis. This is explained in more detail within the enclosed agreement.

OR

Damages based wording

We have agreed to consider acting on a percentage of Damages basis. This is explained in further detail within the enclosed agreement.

AND (WITH ANY OF THE ABOVE)

We will raise invoices for our time at regular intervals as your matter progresses and may raise an invoice prior to completion of the Initial Scope.

Additional Costs and Fees payable to Third Parties (disbursements)

Disbursements are expenses that we must pay on your behalf. Based on the information you have provided I do not envisage you incurring any expenses in relation to this matter.

OR

We cannot give an exact figure for your disbursements at this early stage, but we will update you regarding disbursements as soon as possible. Usual disbursements might include court fees, expert report costs, counsel fees, Land Registry fees, the fees of tracing agents and/or process servers.

Fixed Recoverable Costs

Costs are always ordered at the discretion of the court. For most claims issued after 1 October 2023 only Fixed Recoverable Costs (FRC) are now recoverable, with the losing party being ordered to pay the winner's costs as well as their own. FRC give a high degree of certainty regarding costs that will be recoverable if you win and apply to most disputes valued between £10,000 and £100,000. Property, housing (landlord and tenant), shareholder disputes and claims valued in excess of £100,000 are usually exempted from the FRC regime.

Prior to issuing court proceedings, it is usually not possible to recover your legal costs. FRC apply after court proceedings have been issued. The FRC regime includes different bands (or levels) of complexity, and different amounts that will be recoverable depending on the stage you reach in the litigation. We will confirm the level of the Fixed Recoverable Costs likely to apply to your dispute with you prior to issuing court proceedings, typically as soon as we are aware of (and are clear on) the value of your dispute.

Importantly, there is a difference between the costs you incur (our charges), and FRC. You pay us our fees and charges irrespective of costs you may, or go on to, recover. It is possible that there might be a potential shortfall between the costs you incur and the costs you may go on to recover. You pay our fees and charges on the basis set out in this letter irrespective of the level and amount of costs you recover.

In certain circumstances it is possible that the costs we incur in your matter might be lower than the FRC allow us to recover from your opponent. In these circumstances, we will retain the full amount of the FRC. Further and in addition, where we make a Part 36 offer in a dispute where the FRC apply and the Part 36 offer is beaten, the court may order an uplift on the FRC sum of 35%. We will retain that uplift. Where an order for costs is made against a party where the court considers the opponent has behaved unreasonably, it may be possible to obtain a 50% increase in the FRC. We will retain this uplift.

Please contact us if you have any queries regarding FRC or costs generally.

Costs Updates

We have agreed to provide you with an update on the amount of costs at least every 6 months or at regular intervals as your matter progresses. We have discussed whether the potential outcome of your matter justifies the expense and risk involved and you have reached the conclusion that the circumstances justify you incurring costs with our firm.

We have discussed costs with you, and your various funding options including public funding, insurance and/or trade union funding. You are personally responsible for the legal costs set out in this letter. We will invoice you for our charges and disbursements at regular intervals.

[We enter into fee sharing arrangements with third parties and this includes an agreement in relation to your matter. We will share a percentage of our overall fees with the third party.

The fee share will be not be more than 20% of our total fee and this will have no impact on you. As a worked example where we agree to charge you £250+VAT and we have entered into a fee sharing arrangement we will account to the third party for £50+VAT amounting to 20%. In this way you are not charged any additional amount as a result of the fee sharing arrangement. The agreements do not apply to your disbursements]

OR

[We have not entered into a fee sharing arrangement with any third party in relation to your matter.]

Payment on account

Please provide us with £[insert figure] on account of costs. We work with money on account of our fees at all times. We cannot complete any substantive work on your behalf until money on account has been provided. [You have not fixed a limit on legal costs. If you wish to do so, please contact us].

Money on account can be provided by cheque made payable to Helix Law Ltd  (marked for my attention), or preferably via a BACS transfer into our account;

Barclays Bank

Sort Code		20-27-91

Account Number	93472434

Reference: HELIX01-01

Please notify us if you are remitting funds via BACS.

Prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing

We are legally required to obtain satisfactory evidence of the identity of our clients and also sometimes people related to them. This includes where monies are received from third parties on your behalf. This is because solicitors deal with money and property on behalf of clients and criminals can at times therefore attempt to use our services and accounts in an attempt to launder money.  We therefore need to obtain and retain evidence of your identity. Most Solicitor firms request that their clients provide evidence of their identity themselves. However, we recognise that this can be time consuming, and we therefore obtain confirmation of your identity using a search service, at our cost. Please note that these searches have no impact on your credit history.

[With this in mind please can I ask you to complete the details at the following link (by a director in the case of a company) so that we are able to verify your identity electronically. Don't hesitate to contact me if you have any queries regarding this.

https://helix-law.co.uk/proof-of-identity/

OR

We have successfully verified your identity, thank you.

Unfortunately if the report is unsuccessful i.e. if you have only recently moved address, we may need to ask you to send in certain documents for our records, such as a recent utility bill confirming your address, and photographic identity documents such as a passport or driving licence. If this is necessary the identity documents should be provided by you, as our client or, where our client is a limited company, by a Director of the company. If you wish to provide us with authority to discuss your matter with any third party we must have your authority confirmed in writing. Please contact me if you have any queries regarding this.

Duties to the court

The nature of our work means that your matter may involve court proceedings. All solicitors have a professional duty to uphold the rule of law and the proper administration of justice. We must comply with our duties to the court, even where this conflicts with our obligations to you. This means that we must not:

•	attempt to deceive or knowingly or recklessly mislead the court

•	be complicit in another person deceiving or misleading the court

•	place ourselves in contempt of court

•	make or offer payments to witnesses who depend on their evidence or the outcome of the case

We must also comply with court orders that put obligations on us and ensure that evidence relating to sensitive issues is not misused.

Under the Civil Procedure Rules (CPR) in England and Wales, specifically CPR 31, parties involved in litigation are required to disclose documents that are relevant to the case.

This duty to disclose includes an obligation to preserve such documents from the moment litigation is contemplated. Failure to do so can result in serious consequences, including adverse inferences being drawn by the court or sanctions being imposed.

The specific duty is to ensure that no potentially relevant document is altered, deleted, lost or destroyed.

I would advise you to take immediate steps to ensure that all potentially relevant documents, whether in hard copy or electronic form, are preserved. This includes emails, letters, memos, reports, and any other records that may pertain to the matter at hand.

I appreciate that you are an individual, not an organisation, but if and to the extent that you have anyone who manages your emails or records it would be prudent to inform them of this duty to prevent any inadvertent destruction or alteration of documents.

OR

It is also prudent to inform all relevant personnel within your organisation of this duty to prevent any inadvertent destruction or alteration of documents.

It is also worth making sure that there is no policy in place with your emails or other storage that deletes old files after a period of time.

Should you have any questions or require further assistance in understanding your obligations, please do not hesitate to contact me.

Limitations regarding our service and liability

We will only act in your best interests. In agreeing to act on your behalf we have considered whether we ought to decline or refuse your instruction (for example because there is a conflict of interest) and this is not applicable. Our maximum aggregate liability to you in this matter will be £3 million including interest and costs. If you wish to discuss a variation of this limit, please contact me. Agreeing a higher limit on our liability may result in us seeking an increase in our charges for handling your matter.

Please see our Terms and Conditions enclosed for further explanation of other limits on our liability to you. If we cannot confirm your instructions at any point, including in writing if necessary, we will not be able to act on your instructions and may not be able to complete any work on your behalf. Please therefore ensure that you provide accurate and up to date contact details so that we can contact you when necessary.

Limitation Periods

With any dispute it is possible that a time limitation, commonly known as a limitation period, may apply. There are many different limitation periods and these will vary depending on your situation. For example the limitation period for a breach of contract claim is six years after the breach of contract. The limitation period for many employment claims is three months after the effective date of termination, and the most common limitation period for claims based on personal injury is three years after the date of the negligent act or omission. If you have not issued a claim by the expiry of the limitation period you may not be entitled to claim compensation. We can only advise you of the relevant limitation period where we are formally instructed, we have received all documents requested, and all matters referred within the action points below have been addressed. If you feel your issue may be approaching the expiry of a limitation period you must bring this to our immediate attention.

'[WHERE NO FACE TO FACE MEETING-DELETE IF N/A]

As we have not met with you face to face, the Consumer Contracts (Information, Cancellation and Additional Charges) Regulations 2013 may apply to this work. This means that you may have the right to cancel your instructions to us within fourteen working days of receiving this letter. You can cancel your instructions by contacting us by post, or email. However, once we have started work on your file, you will be charged for any work we have carried out even if you then cancel your instructions.

Data Protection

Legal Advice

As a result of the instructions we hold, and will continue to hold, your personal data. You have the right to ask us to delete it. However, we cannot delete your data for at least 15 years after this matter has completed. By signing the attached terms and/or continuing to instruct us you are giving us permission to keep your data.

Marketing

We would like to keep your data indefinitely to keep you updated with our legal tips, seminars, blogs, other free services and for general marketing purposes. You have the right to opt out of the marketing lists at any time. And, if you ask for us to delete the data, we shall do so as soon as we no longer need to keep it in accordance with the legal advice purpose described above. By signing the attached terms and/or continuing to instruct us you are giving us permission to keep your data indefinitely for marketing purposes subject to your right to ask us to delete it after 15 years from the closing of your last file.

Action points

Please can you:

[Insert first step you would like client to take (other than return or send documents), e.g. telephone me to discuss...]

Provide a payment on account of costs and disbursements of £[state amount]

Please complete our online proof of identity form at https://helix-law.co.uk/proof-of-identity/

Sign and return one copy of the attached[Conditional Fee Agreement]

Provide the following documents[and information] to allow me to take the next steps in your matter:

[describe first document or information you need from your client]

[describe second document or information you need from your client]

[etc]

As soon as the above points have been addressed I will [explain what steps you are going to take or have taken].

Don't hesitate to contact me if you have any queries or concerns about your matter, this letter or the attached terms and conditions.

I look forward to speaking with you further in due course.

Kind regards

Yours sincerely

Luke Zemanek

Tech & Automations

Terms of business

Terms of business

The purpose of this document is to confirm the arrangements between us. Although your continuing instructions in this matter will amount to your acceptance of these Terms of Business, we ask that you sign, date and return one copy for our file.

Table of contents

Business hours

Our responsibilities

Your responsibilities

Service levels and frequency of communication

Limit of liability

Regulated services

Non-regulated services

Data protection

Trademark

Storage and retrieval of files

Outsourcing

External auditing

Terminating your instructions

Prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing

Confidentiality

Cyber Security

Receiving and paying funds

Complaints

Our bill

Payment of interest

Investment advice services

Insurance mediation activity

Equality and diversity

Applicable law

Future instructions

Business hours

We are normally open between 9.00 am and 5.30 pm from Monday to Friday. We may be able to arrange appointments outside of these hours, in cases of emergency.  We are closed on all bank holidays.

Our responsibilities

We will:

treat you fairly and with respect

communicate with you in plain language

review your matter regularly

advise you of any changes in the law that affect your matter

advise you of any reasonably foreseeable circumstances and risks that could affect the outcome of your matter

Your responsibilities

You will:

provide us with clear, timely and accurate instructions

provide all documentation and information that we reasonably request in a timely manner

safeguard any documents that may be required for your matter, including documents that you may have to disclose to another party

Service levels and frequency of communication

We will update you by telephone or in writing with progress on your matter regularly.

We will explain to you by telephone or in writing the legal work required as your matter progresses.

We will update you on the likely timescales for each stage of this matter and any important changes in those estimates. Whenever there is a material change in circumstances associated with your matter, we will update you on whether the likely outcomes still justify the likely costs and risks.

We will update you on the cost of your matter at the intervals set out in our letter confirming your instructions. If appropriate, we will continue to review whether there are alternative methods by which your matter can be funded.

Limit of liability

We have professional indemnity insurance giving cover for claims against the firm.  Details of this insurance, including contact details of our insurer and the territorial coverage of the policy, can be inspected at our office or made available on request.

Our maximum aggregate liability to you in this matter will be £3,000,000 including interest and costs unless we expressly state a different figure in our letter confirming your instructions. If you wish to discuss a variation of this limit, please contact the person dealing with your matter. Agreeing a higher limit on our liability may result in us seeking an increase in our charges for handling your matter.

We will not be liable for any consequential, special, indirect or exemplary damages, costs or losses, or any damages, costs or losses attributable to lost profit or opportunity.

Helix Law is a limited company. This means that the firm's members directors are not personally liable for any acts or omissions by the firm, unless the law requires otherwise.  This does not limit or exclude liability of the firm for the acts or omissions of its members and directors.

We can only limit our liability to the extent the law allows. In particular, we cannot limit liability for death or personal injury caused by negligence.

Please ask if you would like us to explain any of the terms above.

Regulated services

Helix Law is authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority, Ipsley Court, Berrington Close, Redditch, B98 0TD (the SRA).

This means that we are governed by a Code of Conduct and other professional rules, which you can access on the SRA's website www.sra.org.uk or by calling 0870 606 2555.

Data protection

We use the information you provide primarily for the provision of legal services to you and for related purposes including:

updating and enhancing client records

analysis to help us manage our practice

statutory returns

legal and regulatory compliance

Our use of that information is subject to your instructions, the Data Protection Act 2018 and our duty of confidentiality. Please note that our work for you may require us to give information to third parties such as expert witnesses and other professional advisers. Under data protection legislation you have a right of access to the personal data that we hold about you.

We may from time to time send you information that we think might be of interest to you. If you do not wish to receive that information please notify our office, preferably in writing.

Trademark

All copyright is reserved entirely on behalf of Helix Law Limited. Helix Law and applicable logo are exclusively owned trademarks of Helix Law Limited, registered with the Intellectual Property Office under numbers UK00003984532 and UK00003984535. The trademarks should not be used, copied or replicated without consent first obtained in writing.

Storage and retrieval of files

After completing the work, we will be entitled to keep all your papers and documents while there is still money owed to us for fees and expenses.

We will keep our file of your papers for up to 6 years, except those papers that you ask to be returned to you. We keep files on the understanding that we can destroy them 6 years after the date of the final bill. We will not destroy documents you ask us to deposit in safe custody.

If we take papers or documents out of storage in relation to continuing or new instructions to act for you, we will not normally charge for the retrieval.  However we may charge you for:

time spent producing stored papers that are requested

reading, correspondence or other work necessary to comply with your instructions in relation to the retrieved papers

Outsourcing

Sometimes we ask other companies or people to do typing or copying on our files to ensure this is done promptly and in the most cost effective manner. We will always seek a confidentiality agreement with these outsourced providers. If you do not want your file to be outsourced, please tell us as soon as possible.

External auditing

External firms or organisations may conduct audit or quality checks on our practice [eg our regulator, the SRA]. These external firms or organisations are required to maintain confidentiality in relation to your files.

Terminating your instructions

You may end your instructions at any time, by giving us notice in writing. We can keep all your papers and documents while our charges or disbursements are outstanding.

We can only decide to stop acting for you with good reason and we must give you reasonable notice.

If you or we decide that we should stop acting for you, you are liable to pay our charges up until that point. These are calculated on the basis set out in our letter confirming your instructions.

In the event that we are on the court record as acting on your behalf at the time of termination, howsoever arising, you agree to sign and return to us Notice of Change of Legal Representative to enable us to come of the court record upon our request.

Should you not sign and return to us Notice of Change of Legal Representative to enable us to come of the court record upon our request, we will have the right to apply to the court for permission to come off of the court record as acting on your behalf. You agree to indemnify us for our costs and expenses in the event such an application is necessary.

Prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing

We are required to verify the identity of our clients. We do this electronically using the information provided by you. This information is then supplied to Callcredit Information Group who perform appropriate electronic and registry searches to verify your identity in accordance with our professional obligations.

Although we pay a fee for this service we do not charge client's or prospects however in providing instructions to us you are agreeing to us taking this approach. If you have any queries or if you do not wish us to verify your identity electronically you must bring this to our immediate attention. The electronic search process does leave an electronic 'footprint' each time a search is conducted. Footprints detail the date, time and reason for a search and certain types of search footprints are used in credit scoring systems and may have a detrimental impact on a consumer's ability to obtain credit.

All data is held in accordance with our data protection obligations in accordance with the Data Protection Act 2018 and in line with our authorisation and license with the Information Commissioner's Office. All reports are confidential and all data is kept and stored securely. These reports are owned by our firm.

Confidentiality

The information and documentation you provide us is confidential and subject to legal professional privilege unless:

stated otherwise in this document or our letter confirming your instructions, eg in relation to prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing

we advise you otherwise during the course of your matter

We cannot absolutely guarantee the security of information communicated by email or mobile phone. Unless we hear from you to the contrary, we will assume that you consent for us to use these methods of communication.

Cyber Security

We accept no responsibility or liability for malicious or fraudulent emails purportedly coming from our firm, and it is your responsibility to ensure that any emails coming from us are genuine before relying on anything contained within them.

Receiving and paying funds

Our policy is not to accept cash from clients. If you try to avoid this policy by depositing cash directly with our bank, we may decide to charge you for any additional checks we decide are necessary to prove the source of the funds. Where we have to pay money to you, it will be paid by cheque or bank transfer. It will not be paid in cash or to a third party.

Complaints

If you are unhappy with any aspect of the service you have received or with the bill, please contact Alex Cook on 01273 761 990, by email to complaints@helix-law.com, or by post at:

Second Floor, Britannia House, 21 Station Street, Brighton BN1 4DE.

We have a written complaints procedure which explains how we handle complaints. A copy is available on request from Alex Cook.

We aim to resolve your complaint within eight weeks. If we have not resolved it within this time, or if you remain dissatisfied with our response, you may refer your complaint to the Legal Ombudsman, who investigates complaints about the service provided by legal professionals.

You must usually refer your complaint to the Legal Ombudsman within:

Six months of receiving our final written response; and

One year from the date of the act or omission you are complaining about, or from when you should reasonably have known there was cause for complaint.

The Legal Ombudsman's service is available to members of the public and certain small organisations, including:

Micro-enterprises (fewer than 10 employees and annual turnover or balance sheet of less than £2 million);

Charities with an annual income of less than £1 million;

Trusts with net assets of less than £1 million.

You can contact the Legal Ombudsman at:

Legal Ombudsman
PO Box 6167
Slough
SL1 0EH
Website: www.legalombudsman.org.uk
Email: enquiries@legalombudsman.org.uk
Phone: 0300 555 0333

Solicitors Regulation Authority (SRA) Complaints

If your complaint relates to the conduct or behaviour of a solicitor or law firm (rather than the service you have received), you may also be able to raise this with the Solicitors Regulation Authority (SRA). The SRA regulates solicitors and can investigate breaches of professional rules.

You can find more information and make a complaint to the SRA at: www.sra.org.uk

Our bill

You are liable to pay legal costs as set out in our letter confirming your instructions.  We will also usually discuss this at our initial meeting with you.

Bills should be paid within 14 days.  We may charge interest on overdue bills at 8%.

You agree to indemnify Helix Law Limited in respect of all costs and expenses incurred by us in pursuing recovery of any unpaid bill, invoice or disbursements, from you.. For the avoidance of doubt your indemnity is uncapped and includes our legal and professional costs and expenses, including but not limited to; our costs, counsel's fees, the costs of any debt recovery agent or firm, court fees, costs draftsmen, and any other costs or expenses, incurred by us in recovering any sum of money payable by you to us.

We may cease acting for you if an interim bill remains unpaid after 21 days or if our reasonable request of a payment on account of costs is not met.

You have the right to challenge or complain about our bill. Please see the Complaints section above for details of how to complain about our bill. The procedure for challenging a bill varies depending on whether it relates to a matter involving court proceedings.  When we send you a bill, we will explain the relevant procedure for challenging it.

We can keep all your papers and documents while there is still money owed to us for fees and expenses.

Payment of interest

We pay interest at the Base Rate on all sums over £1,000 but only if that interest amounts to more than £30 in any calendar year.

Investment advice services

We are not authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority. If, while we are acting for you, you need advice on investments, we may refer you to someone who is authorised to provide the necessary advice.

However, we may provide certain limited investment advice services where these are closely linked to the legal work we are doing for you. This is because we are members of the Law Society of England and Wales, which is a designated professional body for the purposes of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. The Solicitors Regulation Authority is the independent regulatory arm of the Law Society. The Legal Ombudsman deals with complaints against lawyers. If you are unhappy with any investment advice you receive from us, you should raise your concerns with either of those bodies.

Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS)

In certain circumstances you may be entitled to compensation from the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) if we or a relevant financial institution cannot meet our obligations. The current limit for eligible claims is £120,000. Further details about the FSCS and eligibility criteria are available at https://www.fscs.org.uk.

We are not authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority as we are an exempt professional firm.

We are regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority. We do not give advice on financial products or services and do not make referrals to any providers. Where there is need for, or benefit of, financial products or services- for example where After the Event Insurance ('ATE') is required or is being sought, or a mortgage is being obtained as part of a settlement - we will assist in providing the applicable relevant information to a broker instructed by you who will assist you further.

We have no arrangements with any brokers and receive no payment from brokers whatsoever, including but not limited to introduction, referral or commission fees, whether products and services are entered into by you, or not. We charge for our time spent in providing information to assist you and we will discuss this with you as appropriate.

Equality and diversity

We are committed to promoting equality and diversity in all our dealings with clients, third parties and employees. Please contact us if you would like a copy of our equality and diversity policy.

Severability

If any provision or part thereof within these terms of business is or becomes invalid, illegal or unenforceable, it shall be modified to the minimum extent necessary to make it valid, and legally enforceable. If such modification under this provision is not possible, the relevant provision or part-provision shall be deemed deleted. Any modification to or deletion of a provision or part provision under this clause shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the rest of these terms of business.

Applicable law

Any dispute or legal issue arising from our Terms of Business will be determined by the law of England and Wales, and considered exclusively by the English and Welsh courts.

Future instructions

Unless otherwise agreed, these Terms of Business will apply to all future instructions you give us on this or any other matter.

I have read this document and I have retained a copy:

Signed:

Dated:

Our Reference: HELIX01-01

Helix Law is a Limited Company registered in England and Wales number 07845461. Registered office Second Floor, Britannia House, 21 Station Street, Brighton BN1 4DE; Authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority 565557. A list of members and directors may be inspected at our registered office.

Any reference to the firm means Helix Law Limited. VAT number 124 7133 39

